---
layout: post
title: "Day 1: Blog Intro"
---
Hello and welcome to my first blog post EVER. This is where I'll be documenting my journey into data science and podcasting, as well as commenting on my experience as a master's student in Norway (assuming I get accepted to the program). Throughout this blog I'll be writing more about myself and to be honest I'm completely winging it right now so I'm not planning to write a big intro but I'll give you a short one as well as outline my current goals as this will help me cement them in my own mind as well.

My name is Tyler Jordan-Klassen. I'm a Canadian with a B.Eng in mechanical engineering from University of Victoria. I'm 32 years old, have 3 years work experience as a project engineer in the pulp industry and I'm wanting to pivot my career into something that will help drive positive change for the future. I've decided to re-apply (was accepted in 2019 but decided to move to the US and got married instead) for the MSc in Industrial Ecology program from NTNU in Norway as this looks to be the strongest analytical tool available to make realistic sustainable change while also potentially driving further economic growth. Please look up industrial ecology as it is a super interesting (relatively) new field that I'm excited to be part of. I've had a lot of fear about how I will get a job with this degree though as few people know what it is and I've never seen a job posting outside academia for someone hiring an industrial ecologist. 

Enter data science. I realized if I can learn and apply the tools of data science while taking this MSc program, I'll be able to come out of the program with skills that will let me bring real value to a company as well as domain knowledge of a field that I hope to grow and be part of. Furthermore, data science is likely going to be incredibly important in order to apply the methods of industrial ecology to the real world and see positive economic and sustainable change. Anyways, I'm hyped and I'll talk more about this as the journey progresses, but I'd like to get back to studying so I’m going to keep this short.

As for podcasting, I love talking with interesting people and learning from their experience and perspective. I am currently starting a podcast called Future Talk Today that will hopefully give me a reason to talk with a whole bunch of super interesting people and ask them questions about the future of their industry and their perspectives on this changing world. It will also help me develop interviewing skills, recording skills, and who knows, maybe one day I'll grow a following.

I'm also a dungeon master for a couple D&D games and a player in a couple more, plus I want to continue developing my yoga and meditation practice, and most importantly I need to continue being a good husband in this wonderful marriage I now have, so there will be a balancing act. It will require discipline, and it will be a good reason to keep me from wasting my time on Youtube or other time sinks. I've started waking up at 6am and might move that forward to 5am eventually as the evening seems much less productive, but I want to ensure good sleep and I'm not sure I can swing going to bed at 9pm and having a good relationship with my wife, so need to find the balance there.

I'm also planning to record the amount of time I spend learning each area to get an idea of my investment and how things progress, not sure the format I'll use yet but that’s ok! Today is the second day of my data science journey, yesterday I studied for 4hrs and today I'm planning on doing similar. I'll also chart out my path a bit more as we go forward, for now just learning what I can and putting the time in.

Anyways! Phew, longer than expected. There is a mountain ahead of me and I'm currently winding my way through the foothills meadow of introductory python programming right now. Day 2 of studying Python, wish me luck!
