---
layout: post
title: "Day 5: Insights"
---
Successful morning, work up at 5:35am and did 3.5hrs of studying Python. I did a whole bunch of practice problems, and learned about lambda expressions, map(), and filter() as well as started checking out what you can do with sets which is pretty cool and looks to be pretty damn powerful.

Last night  and yesterday had a couple awesome insights for myself. Firstly, I have been listening to the “Future Thinkers” podcast and they were interviewing Daniel Christian Wahl who is a biologist with something like 30 years of experience living in and designing intentional communities and smart villages. The hosts asked him (as they are starting a smart village) what insights he can share with them to help them on their journey. Instead of telling them some particular solution, he told them that what he found was that in order to succeed in an endeavour like this, you need the group of people working on it to shift their mindset from being solution oriented to question oriented. That is to say, there are no wrong ideas, but also no Right ideas (as in, immutably correct), there is only information and transitory ideas. And since a smart village, and pretty much everything in the real world, is a complex system, it is fundamentally unpredictable. Meaning that you will never completely know the impacts of the solutions you implement. So instead of always searching for the Right solution, recognise that that doesn’t exist and view everything as information that can be learned from, experiments to be tried, and don’t be attached to your ideas because they are never going to be perfect. This way, when 10 people have different ideas for what to do, none of them are wrong, they are all just bringing in different solutions that can be learned from and the system can adapt. This also puts more emphasis on the process. Success is a process not an end state. Journey over destination. So for me, I have a lot of anxiety around trying to create desired futures for myself. But my life is a complex system and there is no way that I can predict what my actions will yield in the future. So I want to take this insight and relax into the present, being open to changing, and just learning from the information that life provides me.

The other insight I had while meditating, and it’s something that comes up a lot for me but it really sunk in last night. I carry a lot of anxiety, and often when I’m meditation I’m TRYING to relax. I realized yesterday that by TRYING, I am putting extra tension in my body. The only way to truly relax is to not try, but instead surrender. Allow my tension to be there completely and fully, and wow look at that, I relax! I just realized that this is a perfect example of the first insight. I am trying to achieve some desired state (relaxation) and think, “well I know all sorts of good relaxation techniques, I’ll do them and then I’ll be relaxed”. But really, if I just sit and watch, really feel what is going on, the entire experience changes and there is an emergent relaxation that is much more profound and longer lasting than the relaxation I was able to achieve by trying.

Anyways, feels good man.
